RBG, uh, passing. That was a real loss.
And I re I can't, I mean,
I w you're a good person to ask because they're like,
they're going to bring the vote up, but then Republican Senator,
two of them say, they're not going to do it. I don't know.
I am not educated enough on the system for
right now, before it's just 50 days before an election,
whether that could actually, it could, it actually happen.
Do they actually approve someone?
They also do have until the new president is sworn in technically.
So there's something called the lame duck session,
which is between November 3rd of this year.
And let's call it January 20th of next year. So it's another, um, you know,
a couple of months and change. Um, so the,
the rules are that they need a majority vote to confirm a new justice.
Uh, right now they have 53 Republican senators. And like you said to said,
they don't want to do it. So now you, you, you have,
if you have one more person,
let's call him Mitt Romney who decides not to then you'd be at 50 50,
but technically the vice president can give a tie-breaking vote in the Senate.
So you need two more Republican senators to join
the, this is not a good idea given this late stage, uh, caucus,
if you will. Uh,
and we're all waiting to see whether there are two more senators that,
that had in that direction. Uh,
there's nothing technically stopping them from trying to do this before the end
of the year. For me,
it's crazy that we're dealing with, uh,
the repercussions that are so predictable of, uh,
like of just this antiquated way of administering the Supreme court.
Like the fact that, and I used to say this on the trail, Joel, I was like, like,
does it make sense that we are all literally just waiting on tenterhooks based
upon the health of an 87 year old woman, uh, and you know,
and then she passes,
which I hate to say it was like somewhat predictable given that, you know,
she'd been struggling with cancer for years and years. Yeah. That,
that we needed to have in my mind,
like a much more modern approach to the Supreme court for a long time. Uh,
and I, I re I proposed 18 year term limits when I was running,
which would improve things dramatically because then, you know,
you get an appointment, the person's there for 18 years,
which is a plenty long time. And just about any context. Um,
but they're not going to be there until the day they die. You don't have, uh,
this political firestorm coming up out of nowhere when someone expires, uh,
the, the other big thing is you shouldn't have only nine justices. Uh, you know,
which is another reason why it's such a, uh, firestorm whenever someone passes,
because each vote is so pivotal, uh,
someone recommended 27 at which struck me as perfectly fine.
And well,
you just appoint a new one every two years until you get up to that level.
And then you have enough of a critical mass.
You also don't need all 70 hero case.
That's the other thing is that in district courts,
some subset of the judges will hear it.
And then if it's a major ruling that overturns a precedent,
then they can bring everyone in. Um, so that it's,
it's just painful to see our country struggling with something based upon a law
that was passed in 1869.
And there was an 1869 law that said nine justices,
but all you need them as is a majority vote to say, you know what,
stop telling me not anymore. Like, and, and then, uh,
you can change it cause there's nothing in the constitution about nine.
So now I'm all excited about the fact that we need to try and modernize our
government. That's one of my new jams,
Joel modernize the government and the Supreme court and the Supreme court has
the most archaic approach you can think of. It's like,
it really is like something out of a,
a game of Thrones or some science fiction novel.
It's like we have these nine unelected folks that we appoint they're there until
the day they die.
And you're like checking their blood pressure and whatnot to see like, Oh,
are you going to be here for, for 30 or 40 years? So that like,
nothing could change during that time. The whole thing, uh, is just,
mind-blowingly add a date.
I agree, you know, w and you've framed that perfectly because it is,
you forget that when, like, what Scalia died,
it was just like this huge surprise. And, and then there's this huge,
you know, like, as you said,
it's like this gigantic reaction because they're appointed for
life. And yeah. If it was 18 years,
which is a good run at any job I would, you would know,
and it would be way easier. I mean,
there's so many things it's so strange to think.
I learned it mostly from Hamilton, but, uh, I read the book too, but, uh,
you're like, Oh, they just put these things. Tons of it works really well,
but there's room for improvement to say the least.
My Lord, that that's the unofficial motto of America. Now, unfortunately,
when it comes to government,
Joel it's like America don't change anything like America fixed it
stowed. We had this rule and it was delivered to us on a tablet. Uh,
no it wasn't. I mean, these guys brilliant, brilliant, uh,
people put together a system, but the system needs to adapt and evolve.
Uh, and DC is not really built for evolution. That way,
that to me is something that should be nonpartisan or bipartisan. It's like,
look, let's just modernize.
And you can imagine a more modern approach to the Supreme court terms and, uh,
and appointments. Uh,
you can imagine a more modern approach to legislation and
voting for sure. I mean, the, the, the fact that we're,
we're dealing with some of the fears we're dealing with around voting, uh,
and I'm not someone like I understand the technology and understand that. Look,
if you just had, um, all of our voting done via smartphone first, there's a,
there's a major party that likes to have people not vote,
which you know, so that that's one set of issues. Um,
but it is true that some of the technology, um,
would not be ready for prime time. Uh,
but you have to start moving in that direction.
And there could be a period when you have, uh,
you have more advanced voting via smartphone,
and then you have some paper redundancy for awhile or whatnot, you know,
and you can like use things as backup, uh,
like that there are different approaches you could take that it's not just all
in one direction. And Americans would love that stuff. If we were like,
if we were like, look, you're going to vote the old fashioned way. It's cool,
but we're going to do this pilot program of, of digital voting too.
And we're just going to like start stress,
testing it and see how it works and see how you like it and whatnot like that.
That would be awesome. I know that that would be an intelligent approach.
Instead,
a lot of it is political where a lot of folks like things the way they are
for, um, really just for keeping things the same right now,
the congressional approval rating, uh, around the country is 21%,
which is very low. And it's about, um,
even with what it's been this last number of years has even been lower at times.
It's been like 17.
The reelection rate for members of Congress is 94%.
So think about that for a second. You're like, wait a minute.
None of us are happy with what's going on, but like everyone wins.
Let's come back and be like, well, if I want to keep my seat, I win.
And there are a bunch of structural reasons for that. I mean,
part of it's gerrymandering and the way the districts are set up,
part of it though, is just this massive fundraising advantage where, uh,
the average successful house candidate raised 1.6 million for Senate it's
10.4 million. And so it,
can you imagine a normal person trying to raise 1.6 million for a congressional
campaign to be impossible? It's like, you know, like, uh, like, I mean,
I was frankly something of an unknown, um, but I remember raising that first,
uh, set of money and it was brutal. Like,
don't want it to get my get money either. I was like, Hey,
you and I are a bit old friends for a long time. I'm running for president.
You want to donate 2,700 wide campaign. And that,
that stuff was really, really difficult.
So for anyone who is trying to do the right thing and, uh, you know,
run for Congress for their district, like,
unless you have been cultivating tons of relationships
with people that have had money over a period of time,
like you're not going to be able to raise enough money to be competitive.
And frankly,
if you were the sort of person that was cultivating those relationships for a
long time, you probably were not the person we're hoping rods.
Like those two things, I've got a mutually.
No choice, but to cultivate those relationships,
because I'm not going to raise the money if they don't. And it's so, you know,
like camp, the campaigning is endless, it starts. So, I mean, it's,
it makes, you know, like buying,
it's like buying Christmas gifts in July. And I like the, uh,
European model, I guess it's British for. They're like, okay,
you can start campaigning off this day. And then yes. And then it stops.
And, and,
but the system is so ingrained and it helps, you know,
it's helped a lot of people. And so they're not going to stop it.
The never-ending campaign, man, I just saw this stat that said,
I'm like Barack Obama in his last year in office, when he like, uh,
or one of the years he was running for reelection,
it might've been 2012 attended over 200 fundraisers that year. And,
and you're just like,
how are you trying to run the country and to show up to 200
fundraisers,
does anyone think that's like an optimal use of his or freaking Trump has
never stopped campaign?
And when you think about the Senate and then you think about Congress and then
obviously the state Congress, all of that, and they're all doing it.
And I just like, I don't know what if you were, would you want your doctor,
if your doctor had to raise their salary, you know,
like I want them to focus on medicine and making sure that I stay healthy
and are up-to-date with the latest information and not out doing this work
to, you know, just maintain them themselves.
For listening in. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you did,
please do subscribe to yang,
speaks and click on notifications so we can let you know every time we have a
new episode.